# Analytics Module
The Analytics Module is where standard reports on Beagle's data are displayed, e.g. management reports. The module is directly accessible from the [Application Menu](../EndUser/Application%20Menu.md) to Users who belong to a [Security Group](../EndUser/Security%20Groups.md) which has the *Can access Analytics* Permission. Without this Permission, a User will not see the *Analytics* option on the [Application Menu](../EndUser/Application%20Menu.md) and attempting to browse to the URL for the Analytics module will result in an error.

The reports themselves are SSRS reports and are hosted on an SSRS server (which one depends on the environment). See the [Reporting](Reporting.md) for more information.

To allow the correct reports for a particular environment to be displayed in the application, the URLs for the SSRS reports need to be variable and set to match the deployed environment at some point. It would have been possible to specify the report URLs using something like configuration transformations in Visual Studio but we're using tokenisation in the VSTS Release Definition to specify the values for variables which are environment-specific (e.g. database connection strings) and so the URLs to the SSRS reports would have had to each have their own Process Variable in the Release Definition, which wouldn't have been ideal.

Instead, the reports' names and URLs are stored in the database table *AnalyticsReport*. When the Analytics Module page loads, it iterates through the records in this table and displays the Report Name and the report specified by the URL for each.

To mitigate for the possiblity of someone maliciously adding a record to the *AnalyticsReport* table with the URL of a dangerous page, the *Analytics Controller* will only pass records which have URLs belonging to the *.liv.ac.uk* domain.