# Goods Received
The Goods Received feature in Beagle allows Users to retrieve delivery information from suppliers and more easily update the clinic's stock levels according to what was received.

Delivery lists downloaded from suppliers are saved into a directory in the root of the Beagle website. The name of the directory to be used is specified in the *DeliveryListDownloadDirectory* column of the *SystemConfiguration* table.

To date functionality has only been written to support delivery lists from Henry Schein - see details of that interface [here](HSAH%20Deliveries.md). In the future Beagle might support more suppliers, at which point it might sensible to store details of suppliers' servers etc. in the *Supplier* table rather than *SystemConfiguration*, but it's very possible that different suppliers' interfaces would work quite differently to Henry Schein's and the whole approach might need revising. For now, the *Supplier* table includes a column named *UsesGoodsReceived* to designate which suppliers should be included in the dropdown on the Goods Received page as sources of deliveries, and for the foreseeable future only the record describing Henry Schein should have this column set to TRUE. This may seem somewhat redundant, but the alternative would be to hard-code the ID of Henry Schein in the *Supplier* table for populating the *StockUpload* table. The *UsesGoodsReceived* column means that we don't need to worry about allowing Users to create and edit records in the *Supplier* table. However, the *UsesGoodsReceived* column should not be exposed to Users for editing. This column may no longer be required if and when functionality to allow the Goods Received page to work for more suppliers is ever added.