# Introduction to Actions and Notifications
One of Beagle's flagship features is Actions. Actions is designed to assist in making common workflows, such as the reviewing and approving of documents for sending, more efficient and less reliant on manual input from staff.

In Beagle, an Action is task that needs to be completed, for example "Send a Referring Vet letter". Actions are assigned to either individuals or Services and can easily be transferred between people and Services. Most types of Action are created automatically in response to certain triggers. For example, when an in patient is discharged an Action reminding the responsible vet for the case to write Discharge Instructions might automatically be created. Some types of Action are created manually by staff, such as Contact Requests (see [Introduction to Contact Requests and Contact Records](Introduction%20to%20Contact%20Requests%20and%20Contact%20Records.md) and Memos.

You'll see Actions displayed in various places throughout Beagle, including the home page and the Animal and Client records. You can manually mark an Action as complete but most types of Action will automatically be marked as completed when the task that they relate to is finished. For example, if you have an Action to authorise a new Beagle user's account, you don't need to authorise them and then mark the Action as complete. The Action will be marked as completed automatically when you authorise the new user (or, indeed, if somebody else authorises them).

You have control over which types of Action you want to be created for you. If you don't want to have Actions generated reminding you send a Referring Vet letter, you can turn them off in your user profile. Similarly, you can choose how you wish to be notified about new Actions that are assigned to you. You can opt to receive Notifications on a per-Action Type basis by email, SMS, within Beagle, all three or not at all! So if you want to receive an SMS message when your 3pm appointment arrives, an email when results are added for the laboratory test you requested and no Notification at all to remind you to write Discharge Instructions, that's entirely up to you (the only caveat is that a manager can choose to make certain types of Action and Notification compulsory).

More detailed information about Actions can be found [here](../Actions.md).