# Introduction to Referrals
You probably know what a referral is in the general sense. In a referral hospital, referrals are received from other vets, usually at first-opinion practices, for patients who they would like us treat.

In Beagle, Referrals are key to a patient's clinical history. All entries added to a patient's history must be related to a Referral. When viewing a patient's record, all historical entires are grouped by Referrals. To an extent, Referrals in Beagle are equivalent to Appointments in Tristan. [Appointments](Appointments.md) exist in Beagle too, of course, but they're simply slots in a diary, not episodes of care against which charges and so forth are added. This makes more sense for several reasons. For example, an Animal may have multiple appointments to come into the hospital over the course of their treatment in relation to a single referral. This is particularly true for referrals to the Oncology Service. In Tristan a single Appointment was kept "open" for weeks or months to collect charges and other things for the course of treatment, even as other follow-up Appointments were being made for the same episode. In Beagle, we'd instead create a single Referral which might have multiple Appointments associated with it.

In the Animal's record in Beagle you can see individual Referrals represented by coloured, vertical bars to the left of the timeline. Clicking on one of these _Referral Bars_ will filter the timeline so that only historical items linked to that Referral are displayed. It will also cause key information relating to the Referral to be displayed in the _Referral Information Bar_ at the bottom of the page.

The vet in charge of a case is set at Referral level (rather than at Appointment level, as in Tristan) and can easily be changed by setting [Referral Roles](Referral%20Roles.md). A Referral can also be easily transferred from one Service to another.