# Introduction to Referral Roles
Referral Roles in Beagle are staff roles which relate to a [Referral](Referrals.md), or episode of care. The equivalent in Tristan was the assigning of vets as either "Vet" or "Senior Clinician" or "Resident" (depending on which hospital you work at) to an Appointment.

On a day-to-day basis, staff can be assigned to the Referral Roles for each Referral. For example, during clinical rounds it might be decided to assign Jane Jones to the "Senior Clinician" role and John Smith to the "Resident" role for a particular Referral. One person can be assigned to multiple Referral Roles, and Referral Roles may be left unassigned, too. It's easy to view and change the staff assigned to a Referral's Roles from various places within Beagle, including the Current Appointment List on the home page, the Appointment detail pane in the [Main Diary](Main%20Diary.md) and the patient's record. A complete history of changes to Referral Role assignments is included in the patient's clinical history.

An Administrator can create up to 5 Referral Roles to which staff can be assigned for each Referral (in practice it's likely that only 2 Referral Roles will be used, at least to begin with, to match the way Tristan worked), and the Administrator can name these Roles whatever they like. They could create Roles named "Vet" and "Senior Clinician", or "Senior Clinician" and "Resident", or even "Student" and "Anaesthetist", if required. One Referral Role must be designated as being the 'responsible' role for cases. The name of the person assigned to this Role will be shown in most places in Beagle where the Referral is displayed. All of this is usually a one-off step, performed when Beagle is first deployed.

More details information about Referral Roles can be found [here](../Referral%20Roles.md).