# Introduction to Security
Every person who uses Beagle must have a Beagle user account. The behaviour of the application can be tailored to your preferences, so Beagle needs to know who you are when you're using it. Access to certain features may also be restricted to certain users where appropriate.

There is no way to create a new Beagle user account for someone else. If somebody who has never used Beagle before needs an account, they should be directed to the usual address for the appropriate instance of Beagle. When they attempt to access Beagle for the first time in this way, a new account will be created automatically for them. However, that new account won't have permissions to do anything, so an Administrator will need to add their account to a Security Group with the appropriate Permissions.

Every user in Beagle belongs to a single Security Group. Each Security Group has Permissions assigned to it, which define what the users in that group are allowed to do within the application. A user in a Security Group with the appropriate Permissions can set the Permissions for other Security Groups (you can't edit the Permissions for the Security Group to which you belong) and assign users to Security Groups.

Because Beagle always needs to know who it is that's using it, users must always login to Beagle using their own user account. If a user is logged into a Managed Windows Service PC (a computer running the University's customised version of Windows) with their own University account, opening Beagle will log the user in automatically. On non-MWS computers users may be prompted to enter their username and password when accessing Beagle. In this case, they should enter their usual University username and password.

Beagle can be opened from MWS computers when Windows has been logged into using a 'shared' account (e.g. _eqhot_), but in these circumstances the user will be required to enter their own username and password to access Beagle - it's not possible to login to Beagle itself using the shared account's details. When a user logs into Beagle in this way, their session will timeout after a certain period of inactivity (defined by an Administrator) and they will be logged out. A warning will always be displayed when this is about to happen so that the user can cancel the automatic logout if Beagle is still in use.